---
layout: post
title: Chapter 3 - Power
---

Lars was taken aback. Had there not been a chair he would have taken a step back, instead he stood up in shock. It felt impossible that the person in front of him, Sarah Fielding, was his Guild Master. She was Obsidian Blade, the real, actual person behind the smooth, black and violet avatar. His mentor, his leader in battle.

No, it was too ridiculous to believe. There were around one thousand players in London, what were the chances that one of his Guild’s mates was at this same campus.

“You seem surprised, which is a natural reaction. Is it that you don’t believe me? If you want, you can ask me another question to make sure that I am not fooling you.”

“No, it’s just that I never expected something like this. When I got this message, I thought I would be a target from the Vitruvians or the Golds for making them loose so many points, but I never would have imagined meeting you, to have someone reveal their identity to me. This is against everything I was taught about the game.”

“That is true, but you must see, there is a good reason for me to approach you.” She smiled and put her left hand on Lars’ chair.

“I hope so,” Lars answered.

“Let’s take a walk, shall we?”

Lars hesitated, then he nodded. For a moment he wanted to leave, but then, if this was all true, then this was his Guild Master, the one who could decide about his fate in the game.

Sarah slouched down, pulled a bag out from under the table. She took out a rectangular case, opened it, and took out a foldable cane, put it together and extended her hand to Lars. “Could you help me get up, please?”

Lars offered his arm and Sarah pulled herself up. Her hand grabbing onto his arm felt like a vice. Once fully up, Lars noticed that she was just a bit taller than him, which made her look even thinner. Lars offered to also carry her bag; an offer she gladly took on.

Together they walked towards the elevator and rode it down into the main hall. On their way to the door Sarah erased the arrows she had drawn on the way up.

Once outside, Sarah pointed towards the embankment. Lars noticed how natural using a cane looked like with her. It was all a smooth motion, a deeply engrained and rehearsed movement pattern.

On the way there they came by the different sports court, where there were still many students practicing before the campus closed at 8. Lars knew some of them. He suddenly felt weird walking with this girl he had known for 10 minutes, carrying her bag, and helping her walk. He could feel his face heat up.

He was no stranger to attention, his group of friends was large, he was out and about almost every weekend, when he spent time at home he played games, he had hosted his fair share of parties and his close friends tease him that he had basically a free choosing of boy- or girlfriends.

So far, he had dated three times, a one-week adventure with a girl three years ago, then a few months with a boy, which ended with the boy moving town, and then, his longest relationship yet, with a girl two years ago, but it was also more of a short-lived flirt. Since then, he had stayed away from relationships.

Now he was walking with a girl again, which felt exceptionally weird. He looked away from the court, hoping that no one would recognize him and get wrong ideas. He liked the air of aloofness and attention that came with being a bachelor.

Luckily for him, no one paid any attention to them. When they arrived at the embankment, Sarah leaned against the quay wall and Lars looked out to the river.

“So, what now?” Lars asked. “We know each others’ identities now. Actually, how did you find me at all?”

“Ah, it wasn’t easy,” Sarah said, “but you are remarkably talkative. It all started a few weeks ago when you came late to the raid in Hall of the Indomitable. You said homework for a stupid substitute teacher from a neighbouring school. I knew you had to be from London, and there are only three campuses with multiple schools here. From then I was taking in more and more clues.

“Three weeks ago, during the escort through the Damned Woodland you said that the teacher for Economics finally left and went back to his own school and your regular teacher returned, so that you wouldn’t be late because of homework again.

“The detail that really stood out was how you were late almost every Thursday for the past weeks. I looked at all the schedules and activities on our campus and found that tennis practice had been moved to Thursday at that point, so I was reasonably confident that you were playing tennis.

“I just had to connect the dots. You were on this school, played tennis, had a substitute teacher in Economics. There is only one person in this school who plays tennis and had Economics with Mr Randall.” Sarah smiled. “I’m quite proud of that one.”

Lars was stunned. “But how did you get my name? How did you figure out that Mr Randall was that teacher?”

“Oh, I’m a member of the student council and I am sitting president of our student representation organization and also work as an assistant to one of the teachers, so I had the access to the local network that I needed.”

“So, you abused your position for your own gain.”

“What!? No! I did not, I did no harm to anyone, I just stumbled upon these clues.” Sarah gestured wildly.

“Ah, I’m just kidding, no worries. I’m the last person who would snitch on another student.” Lars laughed.

Sarah sighed of relief. “Oh, good. I was afraid you might be even more of a stickler than me. But it seems I judged you correctly.” She looked towards, but not quite at Lars. “But enough with that. What now, you asked. Well, I have a bit of an ambitious plan, a plan that needs both people on the inside of the game and the outside.”

“What kind of plan needs that?”

“I want to organize a raid against the local Power World server.”

Lars looked at Sarah in disbelief. She noticed his concerned face and pulled away from the wall, putting her weight on her cane.

“But how is such a thing even possible? No one knows where the server is, if it is even a thing in the game.”

“Exactly. That’s why I need people on both sides, more than just me. You see, I’ve moved here two years ago, but before that I lived in Hongkong. We had our own Power World community there, but one day everyone disconnected. For days we couldn’t connect to the server. When it came up again, everything changed. I am sure you know of, and maybe even use some of the ‘real’ powers that the game gives you, hm?”

“Yeah, occasionally…”

“Did you use them to cheat on an exam?”

Lars’ heart dropped. He had used his powers on an exam. It was almost laughably easy. Using the game’s interface, you could log onto the internet without the school noticing it and just look up the answers to every question. It had been the only way he could keep his grades up while living his outgoing lifestyle.

“I take your silence as a ‘yes’,” Sarah said. “Don’t worry, I won’t tell anyone. It’s rather natural to use these powers, I think. If not, why do they even exist?” Sarah dragged her feet across the gravel, kicking some pebbles away from her.

“That is a good point,” Lars finally said. “So, Hongkong?”

“Yes. What has happened was that someone attacked the server and installed a new software on it, an update for Power World that vastly expanded the abilities we had in real life. It was like a power rush, suddenly we could manipulate the world around us in ways unimaginable. We could break through security measures, read the signals of other brain links, it was intoxicating. We were walking around in the city with almost full control of the technology around us.”

“And you want that power again?”

“No.” Sarah sighed. “Three days after we discovered our new powers, enemies started to appear in Power World, enemies that were quickly decimating the lower levels. Within a month the Hongkong server was on the verge of dying. There were no more licenses to copy available to us. We had run out of the ability to invite new people into the game.

“In a last effort we all banded together to defeat these enemies. We had the best of the best, we began our raid against whatever menace this was, but we were defeated. In the crucial moments people became scared and logged out, afraid of loosing the points they had left. In the end I saw the possibility to slay one of the enemies. With barely any health left and on the verge of loosing all of my points I managed to kill a hydra, take its points, and log out.

“I never logged onto the server in Hongkong again, afraid of what was waiting for me. When my family moved to London, I was careful at first. Defeating the hydra has bestowed me with an obscene number of points that would last for years, probably, but I was missing playing the game. So, I decided to log onto the London server, prepared to find the same situation as in Hongkong, but London was alive and well.

“The rest, I think, you know most of. I transferred my data from Hongkong to London, I paid the price to establish a guild in London and you joined, as did Viridian, Cinnabar, Alabaster, and the others. But I had lost the power over my surroundings. Going back was hard at first. I got used to it again, but it is not the power that I want back, I want that something like that never happens here.”

Sarah let her gaze glide across the river. On the other side she could see the high rising towers of central London, jutting out of the metropolitan area like rockets on their way to space. 

“So how do you want to do that?” Lars asked.

“I don’t know yet.” Sarah paused. “We’ll figure it out.”
